Greetings, and welcome to JW Broadcasting®!
We have an exciting program in store for you.
We’ll learn how Jehovah
has revealed his “sacred secret”
and what it means for each of us.
We’ll see a dramatization
that will help us stay focused
on serving Jehovah
and avoid becoming overly concerned
with when the end will come.
In this new episode of Our History in Motion,
we’ll learn how Jehovah’s organization
has harnessed motion-picture technology
to preach and teach.
And we’ll enjoy a thought-provoking
music video with a timely message:
We’re happier when we keep it simple.
This is JW Broadcasting for August 2024!
Do you like mysteries or puzzles?
What about secrets?
Are you good at keeping
honorable secrets confidential?
Jehovah had a secret
that he kept for about 4,000 years!
Unlike human secrets,
which often are difficult to keep confidential,
Jehovah’s sacred secret
would be revealed only by divine revelation.
In other words, Jehovah would reveal
the details only in his due time.
Proverbs 25:2 says:
“It is the glory of God to keep a matter secret.”
What’s the secret we’re talking about?
It’s related to the first prophecy
recorded in the Bible,
found at Genesis 3:15.
How would Jehovah fix the damage caused
by the rebellion in the garden of Eden?
Jehovah said to the serpent who deceived Eve:
“And I will put enmity
between you and the woman
“and between your offspring and her offspring.
He will crush your head,
and you will strike him in the heel.”
What an intriguing prophecy!
It was spoken some 6,000 years ago,
but its meaning affects each one of us
and every person who has ever lived.
Who was behind the voice of the serpent?
Who was “the woman”?
Eve might have thought that she was,
because when she later gave birth to Cain,
she said at Genesis 4:1:
“I have produced a male child
with the help of Jehovah.”
But Eve was not “the woman” of the prophecy.
Jehovah’s secret was still a secret.
Who was the ‘offspring of the woman’?
If Eve thought it was Cain,
she was sadly disappointed.
Jehovah would reveal these details
according to his timetable,
long after Adam and Eve died.
We might compare the revealing
of Jehovah’s sacred secret to this puzzle box.
It’s locked and seems impossible to open.
However, a series of steps
leads to opening the box
and revealing the treasure inside.
Those steps are like the details
that led to identifying
the promised ‘offspring of the woman.’
What were some of those details?
Over 2,000 years after the prophecy in Eden,
Jehovah made a promise
to the faithful man Abraham
that provided a piece of the puzzle.
What did Jehovah say?
We find his words at Genesis 22:17, 18:
“I will surely bless you
“and I will surely multiply your offspring
like the stars of the heavens
“and like the grains of sand on the seashore,
“and your offspring will take possession
of the gate of his enemies.
“And by means of your offspring
all nations of the earth
will obtain a blessing for themselves.”
Wow!
Jehovah revealed the first detail
to unlock his sacred secret.
Abraham must have been amazed
when he looked up to the heavens
and saw thousands of stars.
Although Abraham would not see
the complete fulfillment of the promise
in his lifetime,
it certainly would be fulfilled at a future time
by the God who does not lie.
Jehovah repeated the promise
to Abraham’s son Isaac
and to Isaac’s son Jacob.
Jacob, in his deathbed prophecy,
said at Genesis 49:10
that “the scepter [would] not
depart from Judah.”
So we learn that kingship is involved
and that the promised offspring
would come through Judah’s line.
Later, Jehovah provided the Mosaic Law
to help protect the nation of Israel
and the promised offspring.
What was the next significant detail
to be revealed?
In 1070 B.C.E.,
Judah’s descendant David
became king over all Israel.
David was “a man agreeable
to [Jehovah’s] heart,”
and Jehovah promised to raise up
someone in David’s royal line
who would rule forever.
The promise is recorded
at 2 Samuel chapter 7,
verses 12 and 13:
“I will raise up your offspring after you,
“your own son,
and I will firmly establish his kingdom. . . .
I will firmly establish the throne
of his kingdom forever.”
We’re one step closer to identifying
the promised offspring.
The offspring
would come through David’s line.
Although David’s son Solomon
had a peaceful reign,
he was not the King who would rule forever.
That King would appear in the future
at Jehovah’s appointed time.
Of course, the Devil didn’t want
the promised offspring of the woman to appear,
so he repeatedly tried to eliminate
or contaminate the lineage to the offspring.
However, Jehovah made sure
that the Devil failed in his attempts.
Down through the centuries,
Jehovah, through his prophets,
provided specific details
regarding the promised offspring.
For instance, the prophet Micah foretold
that the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem.
Daniel’s prophecy of the 70 weeks of years
indicated the exact year
when the Messiah would appear.
Also, Isaiah’s prophecy revealed
that the offspring would die a sacrificial death.
Jehovah was progressively revealing details
about his sacred secret.
Centuries later, in the year 2 B.C.E.,
the angel Gabriel appeared
to a Jewish virgin named Mary
and made a startling declaration to her.
Would you like to know what it is?
It’s found at Luke 1:31-33:
“Look! you will become pregnant
and give birth to a son,
“and you are to name him Jesus.
“This one will be great
“and will be called Son of the Most High,
“and Jehovah God will give him
the throne of David his father,
“and he will rule as King
over the house of Jacob forever,
and there will be no end to his Kingdom.”
Both Mary and Jesus’ adoptive father, Joseph,
were descendants of David,
so Jesus received both the natural
and the legal rights of an heir of David.
Can you imagine what might have been
going through Mary’s mind
after hearing those words?
Did she perhaps remember
hearing similar details
from the book of Moses
about the promised offspring?
Of course, about nine months later,
when Jesus was born,
Jehovah’s angel appeared to shepherds
who were tending their flocks near Bethlehem.
The angel announced,
as recorded in Luke chapter 2:
“Today there was born to you
in David’s city a savior,
who is Christ the Lord.”
After thousands of years,
Jehovah was giving notice
that his sacred secret would soon be revealed.
The shepherds went and told Mary
and Joseph about this divine message.
The word about the Christ was spreading.
About 30 years later,
in the days of John the Baptizer,
“the people were in expectation
“and all of them were reasoning
in their hearts about John,
‘May he perhaps be the Christ?’”
A short time later, Jesus the Nazarene
came to John to be baptized.
After Jesus came up out of the water,
Jehovah anointed him with holy spirit and said:
“This is my Son, the beloved.”
At long last,
the promised offspring
of Genesis 3:15 had arrived!
Humble Jews readily responded
to Jesus’ teachings and ministry.
But there were many more details
about the sacred secret yet to be revealed,
like the many facets
of a beautiful crystal.
During his ministry,
Jesus himself identified the serpent
as Satan and the serpent’s offspring
as those who display
the Devil’s characteristics.
Jesus also revealed,
as recorded at Luke 22:28-30,
that there would be a secondary part
of the woman’s offspring:
spirit-anointed Christians
who will rule with Christ in heaven.
Later, the apostle Paul identified
the woman of the prophecy
as the heavenly part of Jehovah’s organization,
made up of faithful spirit creatures.
Of course, the enmity foretold at Genesis 3:15
continues into our day.
The Devil and his offspring
continue “to wage war
with the remaining ones
of [the woman’s] offspring” on earth.
But what did the Messiah accomplish
while he was on the earth?
The Jews were hoping that he would bring
liberation from Roman oppression.
However, Daniel’s prophecy indicated
that the Messiah would be “cut off,”
or “put to death.”
This corresponded to the ‘striking in the heel,’
mentioned at Genesis 3:15.
Still, Jehovah also revealed at Psalm 16:10
that his Son would not be left “in the Grave.”
True to his promise,
Jehovah resurrected Jesus
less than three days after his death.
Of course, a principal part
of Jehovah’s sacred secret
involved the Messianic Kingdom,
of which Christ would be King.
While Jesus was on earth,
he cured the sick,
he fed the hungry,
and he resurrected the dead
—things that he’ll do on a far greater scale
as King of God’s Kingdom.
After Jesus ascended to heaven,
many additional details
about God’s sacred secret
were revealed in the writings we now know
as the Christian Greek Scriptures.
Colossians 2:3 says:
“Carefully concealed in him [or, Christ]
are all the treasures of wisdom
and of knowledge.”
When did the sacred secret come to its finish?
Revelation 10:7 says that it would occur
“in the days when the seventh angel
is about to blow his trumpet.”
When did that take place?
Let’s note the answer at Revelation 11:15:
“The seventh angel blew his trumpet.
“And there were loud voices in heaven, saying:
“‘The kingdom of the world
“‘has become the Kingdom of our Lord
and of his Christ,
and he will rule as king forever and ever.’”
This occurred in 1914
when Christ Jesus became
King of God’s Kingdom.
But is that the end?
No!
The revelation provides additional details
regarding God’s Kingdom
and future events
that most people would consider shocking.
For example, Revelation 19:11-16
reveals that Christ Jesus,
“the King of kings and Lord of lords,”
will “strike the nations”
and “shepherd them with a rod of iron.”
As King of God’s Kingdom,
Jesus will soon crush all human governments
and hurl the Devil into an abyss of inactivity.
This will lead to 1,000 years of peace.
At the end of the thousand years,
the Devil will be released from the abyss
for a short time,
and then the final fulfillment
of Genesis 3:15 will occur:
The offspring of the woman
will crush the head of the Devil.
How does all of this affect us?
We’re privileged to know
about God’s sacred secret,
which he kept secret for some 4,000 years.
Some of the details Jehovah
has helped his people
to understand only in recent decades!
Yes, Jehovah has made “known to us
the sacred secret of his will.”
During this broadcast,
we have considered only a few facets
of God’s sacred secret.
Why not make it a project
for personal or family worship?
It’s thrilling to think about Kingdom realities
and how Jehovah will completely undo
the effects of Satan’s rebellion.
Christ Jesus now rules as King in the heavens,
and the days for this evil system of things
under Satan’s domination are numbered.
Jesus will soon strike the nations
with a rod of iron
and then transform the earth
into a beautiful paradise.
What does Jehovah want us to do
with his sacred secret?
Should we put it back into the box?
bury it in the ground?
No!
Jehovah wants us to make it known!
The sacred secret is now being proclaimed
in over 1,000 languages.
Are you having a full share?
Deep appreciation for this sacred secret
and all that it means for the future will impel us
to share it with as many people as possible.
When the apostle Paul wrote
to Christians in Ephesus,
he requested of them,
as recorded at Ephesians 6:19:
“Pray also for me,
“that the words may be given to me
when I open my mouth,
“so that I may be able to speak boldly
in making known the sacred secret
of the good news.”
That’s our prayer for you,
dear brothers and sisters,
that we all may continue to declare
Jehovah’s sacred secret with boldness.
One way we reach
many people with the good news
is through special preaching campaigns
organized by the branch office.
In the following report,
we’ll see how Jehovah has blessed this work.
I love to preach;
I love to talk about Jehovah.
Whenever I’d read the experiences of pioneers
and missionaries in the yearbooks,
I wanted to feel that same joy
and same feeling that they had.
When I heard about the announcement
about the campaign,
I knew that that was my chance.
The first challenge
was the pressure I got from others.
“Why go somewhere so far?”
“You could use that money
to travel somewhere more beautiful.
You could even travel to another country.”
These types of comments did affect me a bit.
Other times
it was more a question of finances.
I once had to decide
whether I would accept an opportunity
to work at a good job in a public sector
or whether to turn that opportunity down.
But participating in that campaign
was my chance to do more for Jehovah.
I knew this experience
would be life-changing.
Throughout the campaign,
we met so many sincere people
—some who had never heard Jehovah’s name
or who didn’t even know what a Bible was.
One experience that stuck with me
was when I tried explaining to someone
what the Bible was,
and then her eyes just beamed
when she understood that it was
a message from God to her personally.
There’s a Bible student who is indigenous,
and whenever you talk about Jehovah,
her eyes always light up.
She always asks to learn more about Jehovah.
We would study over the public telephone
because she lives in a village
that’s about a five-day journey away.
But even though it was challenging,
she made it to the meetings.
She would bring the whole family.
Sometimes up to 20 people
would walk into the Kingdom Hall.
I would bring a Bible,
a phone, and a tablet,
and I would pass them around
and try to help them.
There’s no doubt
that having these experiences
was well worth it.
I know that participating in this campaign
was the best decision.
I started to truly see Jehovah
as a real friend.
And it was also wonderful to spend time
with a variety of brothers and sisters
during the campaign.
It helped me mature spiritually.
I planned to go for a month
and ended up staying there for five years.
If I could, I’d do all over again.
My family owns a guest house,
and my father said that we were going
to host a group for a campaign,
but I never had contact
with Jehovah’s Witnesses before.
When the group arrived,
the pastor of my church said
that I should be
very careful about having contact
with Jehovah’s Witnesses.
So I was.
I did everything I could
to avoid contact with them.
I would see them leaving early
for the ministry.
But one day,
there was a sister that didn’t go out,
and I thought,
‘She’s going to try to preach to me.’
And that’s what she did.
So since she was already staying at the inn,
I started studying with her.
But at first, it was just to prove her wrong.
As I kept studying, though,
I could see that what I was learning
was really making sense.
So I couldn’t say that
that wasn’t the truth.
I would also notice the brothers and sisters
playing guitar, singing,
and I thought it was so beautiful
to see how joyful they always were.
I met the Witnesses in April 2016,
and in October,
I became an unbaptized publisher.
In January 2017, I was baptized,
and I’ve been regular pioneering
for two years.
I am sure that all of this happened
because Jehovah
heard what I prayed for
a few days before.
I had to go to the hospital,
and I had asked,
“God, help me survive
so that I can get to know you
because I know
I don’t know the truth about you yet.”
He gave me what I asked for.
He sent the brothers
just at the right time with the campaign.
I’m sure it was Jehovah who sent them.
Someone could be praying for help
to learn about Jehovah.
And he would direct a preaching campaign
with brothers from many places
to help honesthearted people.
Some seeds of truth we plant
may take root unexpectedly.
By sharing zealously in the preaching work,
you could be the one who helps someone
hear the truth for the very first time.
Learning about Jehovah
can be the turning point in a person’s life.
We’ll see an example of this
in the following interview.
I hated the world’s situation;
there was so much suffering.
And I always had so many questions:
Why are we here?
What is it all about?
What is the purpose?
Is there really a God?
Is there?
Could he allow all of this?
So I opened the window,
and I stuck my head out, and I said,
“If you’re there,
I want you to know how I feel about you.”
I was raised in a religious Jewish family
in the Bronx.
My parents viewed money as security,
and they worked seven days a week.
That really affected us as children a lot.
I was a child let on the loose;
I was running the streets.
And so I started using drugs,
and I started selling drugs,
and I was getting in every kind of trouble.
And so they moved us out to Long Island,
hoping things would be better.
But I would take a taxi
back into New York City every day.
One of the drivers was named Joe,
and we hit it off,
and I wound up marrying him.
My father was so, so upset.
I’m married; I’m pregnant.
I said to him, “I’m moving out.”
And he said to me,
“Don’t look back because this is final.”
So my family had disowned me.
I was a new mother with a baby,
and I was really hurting.
So I remember one day
looking out the window
and seeing this little old man
come up my stairs,
and he was carrying a little blue book.
And he came to my door,
and he wanted 25 cents for that book,
The Truth That Leads to Eternal Life.
And I didn’t really care about the book,
but something made me want
to give that little old man that quarter.
Right away, chapter 4 caught my attention,
“Why We Grow Old and Die.”
And I read the entire chapter,
and I thought:
‘It just made sense.
I can’t wait to share this with Joe
when he comes home.’
He just lost his temper;
he went out of control.
He did not want to hear
about Jehovah’s Witnesses.
This was not that important.
This book was really not that important.
I didn’t want it to begin with.
And so I just dropped it in the trash can
and thought: ‘That’s the end of that.
It’s gone.’
But that little old man came back
with a young sister.
And Joe was there
cutting an orange with a knife,
and he was not happy
to see those people again.
He took that knife,
and he waved it
in front of the sister’s face.
And he said,
“I don’t want you here at the house.”
She ran to the door, and she said,
“No problem, I will definitely not be back.”
And they left, and I thought,
‘I really don’t think they’ll be back.’
But they did come back,
now an elderly sister
who had a Jewish background.
And I said to her,
“Can you not take a hint
that I am not interested
in speaking with you?”
And she said:
“I get that; I get that.
But I really would love to ask you
just one question.”
I thought, ‘OK, there’s no harm
in letting her ask me one question.’
She opened up the green Bible
to the cover page
where it has the Tetragrammaton,
Jehovah’s name in Hebrew.
And she said,
“Will you just say this name for me?”
I thought to myself:
‘I’m not gonna say that name.
‘Jewish people don’t say that name.
I have never ever said that name.’
But finally, I did;
I said, “Yehovah.”
For the very first time,
I said the name Jehovah.
And I was like, so shocked.
You know, I was just waiting
for something terrible to happen.
And then she told me
that the name Jehovah
was in the Bible about 7,000 times.
As soon as she left,
I went and got out my Hebrew Bible.
And I was gonna look for that name, Jehovah,
and circle it if it was there.
So I started to do that.
I went through the first page
and the second page.
And I realized,
as I flipped through the Bible,
it’s everywhere.
The name Jehovah was everywhere.
I thought,
‘I have got to share this with Joe.’
And Joe was really impressed;
he was really softening.
It made a difference.
A week later, she comes back
because she wanted to show me a prophecy
in the Hebrew Scriptures
in Daniel chapter 9.
She called it the 70-weeks-of-years prophecy.
And for the first time,
I could see that there was a real answer
to when the Messiah would come
and what would be the results on the earth.
Seeing those prophecies
really motivated me to want to know more.
I thought to myself:
‘If all of these prophecies are from God
‘and he’s fulfilling all of them,
‘what other prophecies are there?
What other wonderful things
do we have to look forward to?’
My relationship with Jehovah
just got better and better.
And we were baptized together
on December 2, 1972.
I came to really appreciate
and love Bible prophecy.
I started doing a lot of research
and a lot of study on my own.
I loved getting to know Jehovah as a Person
who wants such good things for us.
Everything he wants,
everything he asks of us,
is for our benefit.
It just really touched me to the core.
My life is so full now
with blessings from Jehovah.
I love that name.
There is no more beautiful name in the world
than Jehovah.
In these distressing times,
people often look to money
or human organizations
—almost anywhere—
for security.
Sister Colon’s experience
reassures us that Jehovah
is the only secure refuge.
He continues to stabilize
and protect her spiritually.
Jehovah’s Witnesses
have helped millions of people
to learn the truth
through a variety of methods,
including, of course, this channel:
JW Broadcasting.
Today we use videos in our preaching,
meetings, schools, and conventions.
But did you know that Jehovah’s organization
first used motion pictures
more than 100 years ago?
This episode of Our History in Motion
traces that rich history.
Let’s watch.
Today we use videos
just about everywhere
in our worship and ministry.
But did you know that Jehovah’s people
started using
film and video to preach and teach
more than a hundred years ago?
Let’s see how and why
in this episode of Our History in Motion.
When the early Bible Students
first began preaching in the late 1800’s,
the motion picture industry
was in its infancy.
But even then,
C. T. Russell and his associates
recognized the power of this new medium.
Film could be used
not only to reach wider audiences
but to touch hearts with Bible truth.
At a convention in June 1913,
the Bible Students passed a bold resolution
supporting the use of motion pictures
as a new tool for preaching and teaching.
Less than a year later, in January 1914,
the brothers debuted
the “Photo-Drama of Creation.”
The eight-hour production
included color slides
and motion picture film,
most of it footage
that Russell purchased from other studios.
Imagine sitting in a packed auditorium
and seeing, possibly for the first time,
moving pictures of events
described in the Bible.
And there was something else
in the “Photo-Drama”
that really took audiences by surprise.
“‘The Photo-Drama of Creation’ is presented
“by the I.B.S.A.,
the International
Bible Students Association.”
Synchronized dialogue!
The “Photo-Drama” played
in theaters and auditoriums around the world.
But what if film
could be used to teach the truth
not just in big theaters
but right in a person’s own living room?
That was the idea behind
a series of short films
released in the 1920’s.
These silent films,
chronicling the travels
of J. F. Rutherford in the Bible lands,
were designed to be shown at home.
They required the use
of the Kinemo Projection Machine,
a portable, low-cost movie projector
made just for this purpose.
Interested ones who viewed these films
were given a glimpse
of the Bible lands
and were introduced to many prophecies.
Over the next two decades,
the organization
used radio and the phonograph
rather than film to reach more people
with the Kingdom message.
But in the 1950’s,
the Governing Body recognized the need
for interested ones to see for themselves
the international scope of the organization.
So they again turned to film
with the release of
The New World Society in Action.
This one-hour-and-twenty-minute film
transported viewers to our Bethel facilities
and international conventions.
It gave them a taste of what it’s like
to preach in some of the remotest parts
of the world.
Additional films
released over the next several years
further highlighted the work of God’s people
and the fulfillment of Bible prophecies.
Then, in 1966,
we released Heritage.
This 28-minute feature was unflinching
in its portrayal of the real-world problems
young people face.
Within the next sixty seconds,
another family somewhere in the United States
will be strained to the breaking point.
What’s this?
Just a family quarrel?
No.
It is far more serious than that.
What is it doing to this family?
Following Bible principles
builds a solid family foundation.
Heritage was presented at circuit assemblies
and other large gatherings.
It was also shown on more than
150 television stations in the United States.
After 1966,
the organization shifted away from film
and began presenting modern
and Biblical dramas
live on stage at conventions.
These dramas brought Bible accounts to life
for young and old
and were one of the highlights
of large conventions for many years.
But as the 1990’s approached,
new technologies emerged
that prompted our brothers
to revisit motion pictures yet again.
Videocassette players
could be found in more and more homes.
And so in 1990,
we released our very first video,
Jehovah’s Witnesses
—The Organization Behind the Name.
It took viewers behind the scenes
and built appreciation
for how our literature is produced
and used in the global preaching work.
“The faithful and discreet slave”
has made extensive use of video ever since.
Motion picture technology
has changed dramatically in 100 years,
but the objective of Jehovah’s organization
in using it has always been the same:
to touch the hearts of people everywhere
with Bible truth.
Jehovah has always understood
the power of visuals.
He gave the prophets visions.
And now we have the technology
that combines visual power
and emotional impact.
Digital technology continues to change,
but our goal has not
—to reach the heart.
True Christians cherish the truth
that this wicked world will soon end.
But what are the pitfalls
of serving Jehovah with a date in mind?
In the following dramatization,
let’s see how a Christian couple
is lovingly helped to adjust their mindset.
Are you eager to see
what unfolds for James and Linda?
Watch for Part 2 of our video
in a future broadcast.
What do we learn from this first episode?
As Thabo observed,
serving Jehovah with a date in mind
can lead to spiritual disaster.
Rather than fixate on when the end comes,
let’s focus on who
we are now before it arrives.
Thabo also said:
“The truth is the truth.”
How do we know
that we are practicing true Christianity?
That’s the intriguing topic
of this morning worship
presented by Brother John Ekrann.
Many years ago, a brother in my congregation
asked me to go with him in field service
and return on a man who had asked him
to come back.
Well, it wasn’t too long
after we were there in his house
that it became clear to us
that he wasn’t so much interested
in listening to us
as he was in convincing us
that Jehovah’s Witnesses
had the wrong religion.
And he went on to attack Brother Russell.
“Charles Taze Russell
started your organization.”
And he made accusations about Brother Russell
—he did this and that, etcetera.
And his reasoning was
that since Brother Russell
was flawed in these ways,
God could not have used him
to start the right religion.
Well, we took the opportunity to point out
his wrong reasoning.
Basically, he was saying that God
cannot use imperfect men to do his will.
Well, think if we applied that to the Bible.
Moses failed
to credit Jehovah God
for the miracle with the water.
What are we going to do?
Take out the first five books of the Bible?
David sinned with Bath-sheba.
We’re going to take out most of the Psalms?
Peter denied Christ.
Well, there goes 1 and 2 Peter.
See, that reasoning
really doesn’t make sense.
Jehovah God does use
imperfect people to do his will.
But putting aside
his flawed reasoning for a moment,
maybe you’ve heard others say
that Jehovah’s Witnesses
are a breakaway Christian sect
or that we’re a new American religion.
Is that really true?
Did Brother Russell start a new religion?
No, absolutely not.
What he did do is rediscover
the true religion of the Bible
the way it was practiced
by Jesus and the apostles.
What Russell and the early Bible students did
was exactly what Jehovah
told the nation of Israel to do
when they had lost their way spiritually.
I’d like you to look at Jeremiah 6:16
and notice the advice that Jehovah gave them.
Jeremiah 6:16:
“This is what Jehovah says:
‘Stand at the crossroads and see.
“‘Ask about the ancient roadways,
“‘ask where the good way is, and walk in it,
and find rest for yourselves.’”
Now, if you look at the Research Guide
on this verse,
one of the first Watchtower  references says:
“Jehovah exhorts his rebellious people
to pause,
“examine themselves, and find their way back
to ‘the roadways’
of their faithful ancestors.”
Well, that’s exactly
what those early Bible students did.
They asked about the ancient roadways
that Jesus walked.
Now, can you imagine an explorer
trying to locate in a jungle
an ancient path that was there?
Now, in a jungle,
the path could have been covered over
by years of growth and it would be difficult.
But maybe he saw a stone or two.
And eventually, by cutting away
the jungle around it,
imagine his excitement
at finding that ancient path!
Well, when you get a chance to read
some of the early writings
of Brother Russell
and the early Bible students,
you get a real sense of discovery,
that they are excited
to have found the truths
that were there in the Bible all along.
They’d just been covered over with hundreds
—thousands—
of years of lies and twisted doctrines
taught by false Christianity.
Yes, Jehovah’s Witnesses
are not a breakaway religion.
We practice Christianity by following closely
the model set out in the Bible
by Jesus and the apostles.
We could really say that the early Bible
students, led by holy spirit,
found the ancient path of true Christianity
and that they cleared away
thousands of years of pagan philosophies
and man-made doctrines.
Right away,
the early Bible students eliminated
“a lot of jungle growth” from the path.
No immortal soul—we are a soul.
No hellfire—when we die,
we cease to exist
and depend on a resurrection.
The ransom—Jesus’ death
saved all of mankind
who would put faith in him.
God’s Kingdom is a heavenly government
that will rule over the earth
and was established in 1914.
It’s amazing how well they cleared the path.
Now, of course,
there was still much work to do,
but the path was much clearer.
In fact, so clear and profound
were those truths
and so clear was the path
that if you read the life experiences
and life stories
of those who came to the truth
in the 1920’s and 1930’s,
they’ll often say
that they read one book or one brochure
and said, “I have found the truth.”
And, of course,
this was not just clearing away doctrine
but also changing
how the organization operated:
appointments of elders
—not elections, not paid;
circuit overseers who visit the congregations
like Paul and Timothy did;
weekly congregation meetings
to make sure that we could study and read
about Jehovah and discuss Bible truths
or focus on the preaching work
like the apostles did;
door-to-door and public witnessing.
Our text for today, Acts 16:4,
is one example of how closely
Jehovah’s organization today
follows the first-century pattern.
Let’s read Acts 16:4
in its entirety.
Acts 16:4:
“As they traveled on through the cities,
“they would deliver to them
for observance the decrees
“that had been decided on
by the apostles and the elders
who were in Jerusalem.”
So, led by Jesus Christ,
who was it that sent out these decrees?
It was the apostles and elders in Jerusalem.
Yes, Jehovah’s Witnesses today
don’t have a single leader, or one man,
that is leading the organization.
We’re organized today
as it was in the first century
by a Governing Body, a group of men
Jehovah uses to lead his organization today.
And all the congregations around the world
are united by the direction
that we get from the Governing Body.
And just as the apostles
and elders in Jerusalem
would send out decrees for all the early
Christian congregations of the time,
the same exact model is used today.
Now, today, decisions
from the Governing Body take many forms.
It could be articles in The Watchtower,
letters to bodies of elders
and the congregations,
Governing Body updates,
organizational direction provided at schools,
and many other forms.
But all around the world,
no matter where Jehovah’s Witnesses live,
they accept the direction
from one Governing Body.
There’s not the Latin Jehovah’s Witnesses
or the American Jehovah’s Witnesses
or the European Jehovah’s Witnesses.
We’re all united worldwide.
And Jehovah’s Witnesses in one country
don’t say, “Well, you know,
I don’t think that direction
from the Governing Body applies to us here.”
No, all of us understand that worldwide,
Jehovah and Jesus
are using the Governing Body as the channel
for spiritual food
and organizational direction.
Now, some feel that because our
world headquarters is in the United States,
Jehovah’s Witnesses are an American religion.
But that reasoning is like some who say,
“Well, the Bible is only for the Jews
because it was written by Jewish men.”
But clearly, the Bible’s message
is for all mankind,
and the fact that Jehovah
chose Jewish men to write it down for us
doesn’t limit its message to just Jews.
Likewise, the fact that Jehovah
chose the United States
as the location for world headquarters
doesn’t mean that Jehovah’s Witnesses
are an American religion.
There’s no limit to anyone
—no matter what country or language—
to becoming one of Jehovah’s Witnesses
and worshipping Jehovah.
And the very fact that Jehovah’s spirit
has moved the Governing Body to work so hard
to make sure that the truth
is available to all nations
is further proof in my mind
that we have found the path of Christianity
that Jesus and the apostles practiced.
So in review: First,
Jehovah’s Witnesses are not
a new religion started by Brother Russell
but, rather, Brother Russell
and the early Bible students
found the ancient path of Christianity
that Jesus and the apostles walked on.
And second, Jehovah’s Witnesses
are not an American religion.
The Governing Body has made every effort
to reach all mankind with the truth.
We truly are the only
united worldwide followers of Christ
on the planet today.
True Christianity has not changed,
but at times our understanding
of certain Bible teachings
has been clarified.
How do you feel about these refinements?
We can learn much from one another’s example.
Please note the candid life story
of Brother Norio Ishibashi.
When will Jesus separate
the sheep from the goats?
When were true Christians held captive
by Babylon the Great?
There have been
so many interesting developments
in our understanding
that I have deeply appreciated.
However, some adjustments
were a challenge for me.
I was baptized in 1960
when I was 12 years old.
I enjoyed the circuit and district work
for 41 years.
In 1971,
I was serving
as the congregation servant.
The “Divine Name” District Assembly
shined new light of truth.
Before then,
congregations had just one overseer,
the congregation servant.
But that assembly highlighted
that just as Philippians 1:1 shows,
the first-century Christian congregations
had more than one elder.
One day, there was a letter in my mailbox.
It was from the branch.
The letter said that the arrangement
for a body of elders would start.
So to prepare,
the congregation committee
and exemplary brothers
had to meet and recommend
those they believed could serve as elders.
We prayerfully discussed the matter,
and all of us were recommended
as ministerial servants.
Until then, I had given public talks
in other congregations
and at circuit assemblies.
Now I would not be given such assignments.
Many elders from other congregations
would come up to me and ask,
“Brother Ishibashi, can you come
and give a talk at our congregation?”
“Oh, sorry, I can’t.
I’m not an elder.”
“What?”
Everyone looked genuinely surprised.
That really tested my humility,
and at times, I felt quite depressed.
As Proverbs 4:18 says:
“The path of the righteous
is like the bright morning light.”
With each flash of light,
I needed to adjust
to Jehovah’s way of thinking
and way of handling things
and keep moving ahead.
I prayerfully shifted gears.
I had many things to do,
so I devoted myself to the field service
and to congregation activities.
And I rejoiced
over the congregation’s growth.
Having a body of elders helped many brothers.
It helped them reach out and attain
the Scriptural qualifications
to be an elder.
That arrangement helps decisions to be made
in better harmony with Jehovah’s will.
Those are great changes.
A few months later,
I received another letter from the branch.
It said that I was to serve as an elder
in a different congregation.
When I receive new publications
or a new Watchtower  magazine,
I always study them carefully
to see if there are any new understandings
or topics to study further.
I also look up
the “Beliefs Clarified” section
in the Publications Index,
and I make it a topic of personal study.
This research has really benefited me.
Jehovah is “the God of love.”
By clarifying our beliefs,
he has adjusted our organization
to be more holy and more effective
in carrying out his will.
God’s people
are just getting better and better;
we are always at new heights.
It is so different from how the world is.
I want to keep moving forward with Jehovah
whenever he shows us his will
as he guides us into the Paradise to come.
Refinements in our understanding of truth
can strengthen our faith if we allow them to.
That’s what Brother Ishibashi did.
He kept an open mind
and prayerfully meditated on the refinements.
If we do the same,
we’ll view clarifications as evidence
that Jehovah continues
to educate his humble people.
Now it’s time for this month’s music video,
which will remind us
that Jehovah knows what we need.
Its title, Let’s Keep It Simple.
All the shiny things
that we see
Promise us
pleasure and security.
But if we want it all,
there’s a cost—
We could be slaves
to what we’ve bought.
Let’s keep it simple.
Jehovah knows what we need.
Let’s keep it simple
and be happy.
Let’s keep it simple,
And you and I will be free.
Let’s keep it simple
and be happy.
We have roofs
over our heads,
Food to eat,
and nice, warm beds.
If we are satisfied
with simple things,
We’ll feel the joy
and peace it brings.
Let’s keep it simple.
Jehovah knows what we need.
Let’s keep it simple
and be happy.
Let’s keep it simple,
And you and I will be free.
Let’s keep it simple
and be happy.
God will bless us if we try.
He will never let us down.
He is loving, just, and wise.
He will be our solid ground.
On him
we can rely.
How good it feels
to live the simple life!
Our hearts are happy,
and our loads are light.
With all this weight
taken off our chests,
We’re free to give
our God our best.
Let’s keep it simple.
Jehovah knows what we need.
Let’s keep it simple
and be happy.
Let’s keep it simple,
And you and I will be free.
Let’s keep it simple.
Jehovah knows what we need.
Let’s keep it simple
and be happy.
Let’s keep it simple,
And you and I will be free.
Let’s keep it simple
and be happy.
We’ve enjoyed an encouraging program.
We’ve learned that Jehovah
has revealed his sacred secret to Christians,
not for us to keep to ourselves,
but to declare it boldly to all.
Our preaching campaigns
are an effective way to find sheeplike ones.
Motion-picture technology is a powerful tool
to reach people’s hearts with Bible truth.
We’ve learned
to appreciate doctrinal refinements
as proof of Jehovah’s love.
And we’ve seen the value of focusing,
not on when the end will come,
but on working every day
to remain “in God’s love.”
Now let’s visit our brothers and sisters
in Colombia for this month’s postcard.
Does Colombia
remind you of a certain beverage?
It makes me think of coffee.
Colombia is one of the world’s
largest coffee producers,
since its soil, rainfall, and geography
are ideal for growing arabica beans,
known for their rich flavor and aroma.
But more than coffee thrives here.
Over 1,500 species of birds fill the air.
Jaguars, monkeys, sloths, and tapirs
roam the landscape.
Burrowing just below the surface,
earthworms grow up to 1.8 meters,
or 6 feet, in length.
The truth took root in the 1920’s
when Heliodoro Hernández
began reading The Watchtower.
The first missionaries arrived in 1945.
In the past, parts of the country
suffered from internal conflicts,
and some remote areas
still experience their effects.
Because our brothers maintained neutrality
and wisely exercised caution in the ministry,
the preaching work never stopped.
Today, more than 186,000 publishers
zealously share the good news
with Colombia’s 51 million inhabitants.
Our brothers preach
in 18 languages and dialects
and can be found in every corner
of this diverse land
in cities such as Manizales,
Bogotá, Cartagena, and Medellín.
You’ll see them preaching
in communities such as Villa de Leyva,
rural areas like Neflandia, Córdoba,
on the island of Providencia
and, yes, on coffee farms too.
Here publishers are on their way to preach
on an Embera Chamí indigenous reservation.
In addition to the ministry,
our brothers enjoy association,
music, dancing,
and delicious Colombian dishes,
such as arepas, bandeja paisa, and sancocho.
Our brothers and sisters in Colombia,
including the Bethel family,
send you their warm love and greetings.
And please remember
that we too cherish each one of you
as part of our precious international family.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting!